docs(langsmith): update voice tracing guides for the langsmith.integrations SDK (#4636)
langchain-ai/docs: src/langsmith/trace-openai-realtime.mdx

description: Trace OpenAI Realtime voice agents in LangSmith using the LangSmith SDK.
---

<Note>

> This integration is in development, so its API may change.

Reviewer: Let's say "beta"

</Note>

Trace your [OpenAI Realtime API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/realtime) voice agents to LangSmith. For high-level conventions, see [Voice tracing fundamentals](/langsmith/trace-voice-fundamentals).

OpenAI Realtime is a speech-to-speech model that streams typed events over a WebSocket. Regardless of whether you build it with a raw connection or the OpenAI Agents SDK, the integration captures each conversation as a single LangSmith trace, with a span for every meaningful event (transcripts, model responses, and tool calls) grouped by turn.

## Choose an approach

> There are two ways to build with the OpenAI Realtime API, and LangSmith provides a tracing integration for each. If you are connecting directly with the realtime client, use `wrap_realtime`. If you are building with the OpenAI Agents SDK, use `wrap_realtime_session` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways to build with the OpenAI Realtime API, and LangSmith provides a tracing integration for each:

- If you are connecting directly with the realtime client, use `wrap_realtime`.
- If you are building with the OpenAI Agents SDK, use `wrap_realtime_session` instead.
```

## Install

The `langsmith[openai-realtime]` extra provides both wrappers:

<CodeGroup>

```bash pip

> pip install "langsmith[openai-realtime]"

Reviewer: See above, good to add version added in

```

```bash uv
uv add "langsmith[openai-realtime]"
```

</CodeGroup>

## Set environment variables

```bash .env
LANGSMITH_API_KEY=<your-langsmith-api-key>
LANGSMITH_TRACING=true
LANGSMITH_PROJECT=<your-desired-langsmith-project>
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your-openai-api-key>
```

## Using the Realtime client

Use this when you open the WebSocket yourself with `client.realtime.connect()` and drive the event loop.

### Set up tracing

`wrap_realtime` returns a transparent proxy of your connection. Your existing `async for event in connection` loop, `session.update`, and tool handling stay the same:

```python
from langsmith.integrations.openai_realtime import wrap_realtime
from openai import AsyncOpenAI

client = AsyncOpenAI()

async with client.realtime.connect(model="gpt-realtime-2") as raw, wrap_realtime(
    raw,
    project_name="openai-realtime-voice",
) as connection:
    await connection.session.update(session={...})  # your existing config

    async for event in connection:
        ...  # your existing handling: play audio, run tools, update UI
```

<Note>

> Each conversation is captured as its own trace. To group it with related interactions in a LangSmith [thread](/langsmith/threads), for example to continue an earlier session or pick up from a text chat, pass a `thread_id`. Reusing the same id across traces links their events together. Setting a `thread_id` is optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each conversation is captured as its own trace. To group it with related interactions in a LangSmith [thread](/langsmith/threads) (for example to continue an earlier session or pick up from a text chat), pass a `thread_id`. Reusing the same ID across traces links their events together.
```

</Note>

Any [`@traceable`](/langsmith/annotate-code) tools you run while handling an event nest under that event automatically.

<Note>

> Enable `input_audio_transcription` (and the agent transcript) in your `session.update` in order to view a transcript as part of the trace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enable `input_audio_transcription` and the agent transcript in your `session.update` in order to view a transcript as part of the trace.
```

</Note>

### Record the conversation audio

> Feed the proxy your microphone and playback audio, and it attaches a single stereo recording (user left, agent right) to the trace. Pass `is_agent_speaking` so barge-ins are flagged:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you feed the proxy your microphone and playback audio, it attaches a single stereo recording (user left, agent right) to the trace. To flag barge-ins, use `is_agent_speaking`:
```

<Note>
The Agents SDK's built-in realtime tracing uploads to OpenAI's own dashboard. Call `agents.set_tracing_disabled(True)` to avoid a second, separate upload path.
</Note>

### Set up tracing

`wrap_realtime_session` wraps the `RealtimeSession` and enters it for you. Iterate it as you would the original; the SDK runs tools and manages turns:

```python
from agents import set_tracing_disabled
from agents.realtime import RealtimeAgent, RealtimeRunner
from langsmith.integrations.openai_realtime import wrap_realtime_session

set_tracing_disabled(True)

runner = RealtimeRunner(
    starting_agent=RealtimeAgent(name="assistant", instructions="...", tools=[...]),
)
session = await runner.run()

async with wrap_realtime_session(
    session,
    project_name="openai-realtime-voice",
) as conn:
    async for event in conn:
        ...  # your handling: play audio, update UI
```

The conversation transcript is reconstructed from the session's `history` snapshots, so messages appear even though the SDK streams them as partials.

<Note>

> Each conversation is captured as its own trace. To group it with related interactions in a LangSmith [thread](/langsmith/threads), for example to continue an earlier session or pick up from a text chat, pass a `thread_id`. Reusing the same id across traces links their events together. Using threads is optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each conversation is captured as its own trace. To group it with related interactions in a LangSmith [thread](/langsmith/threads), for example to continue an earlier session or pick up from a text chat, pass a `thread_id`. Reusing the same ID across traces links their events together.
```
